Web server parameter	Description
Genome build	Referes to the genome build versions of the genomic tracks that are to be shuffled. Select one of the supported genome build versions. Alternatively, select a "custom genome build" to upload the chromosome lengths file of an unsupported genome build or species. 
Number of tracks to shuffle	The tool can be used to shuffle a single track or multiple tracks simultaneously. A wider range of randomization algorithms are available when shuffling multiple genomic tracks. 
Number of desired randomized versions of each track	Referes to how many randomized versions of each track are desired. The webtool currently supports a maximum of 100 randomized versions of a single track. If more randomized versions are desired, then the user may use the command-line tool or repeat the webtool operations multiple times with the same parameter settings.
Select the BED or Gsuite file to shuffle	The input can be a BED file or a Gsuite file (in case of multiple genomic tracks). The user can use the upload button to upload a compressed archive of BED files (zip or tar file), which can then be converted to Gsuite format using an existing tool on the webserver. Look at the "Input file formats" section of the Documentation for details.
Restrict the shuffling to certain regions?	Often, the user may want to restrict the shuffling to a predefined set of regions. Such explicit set of regions can be considered as the background or universe of possible genomic regions. If such restriction is desired, a new selection box appears, where a BED file of the background regions can be supplied. When such a background set is supplied, the default behavior is to shuffle the genomic regions only within the locations supplied. If the user instead wants to exclude some regions from the shuffling, the user has to construct the background set file in such a way using existing genome arithmetic tools like bedtools.
Shuffling distribution	This refers to whether a genomic region can be shuffled on to a different chromosome (than it originated from) or to be shuffled to a different location on the same chromosome.
Should the shuffling be reproducible?	This refers to whether the randomized versions should be reproducible (if the same algorithm and data are used at a later stage, the randomized versions should essentially contain the same randomized genomic locations).
Enter a seed value in the textbox	A random number of user"'"s choice to enable the reproducibility of randomizations.
Type of randomization(within tracks)	This refers to whether the randomization should be independently carried out within each genomic track (when randomizing multiple genomic tracks).
Type of randomization(between tracks)	An alternative to randomizing each track independently is to shuffle the genomic regions between the multiple tracks.
Randomization algorithm	A selection of the details of each randomization algorithm.
